Add Java solution to Concert Tickets CSES (#2083)
cpinitiative/usaco-guide: solutions/cses-1091.mdx

id: cses-1091
source: CSES
title: Concert Tickets
author: Danh Ta Chi Thanh, Ben Dodge
---

[Unofficial Editorial (C++)](https://codeforces.com/blog/entry/83295)

## Explanation

For each customer, we want to find the maximum possible ticket price they will
accept from the available tickets. If the customer's maximum price is too low,
so that no ticket price is below it, we can return -1. If not, we find the
greatest ticket price less than or equal to the maximum price, and then remove
that price as specified by the problem. We use a multiset for this.

## Implementation 

> **Time Complexity:** $\mathcal{O}(n+ m)$

Reviewer: I'm not sure about `NavigableMap`, but I think it has a log factor.

Author: You're right.

id: cses-1091
source: CSES
title: Concert Tickets
author: Danh Ta Chi Thanh
author: Danh Ta Chi Thanh, Ben Dodge
---

> ## Solution

Reviewer 2: Can you reorganize this such that the unofficial editorial link is at the top, followed by the explanation of the solution under a header called "Explanation", and finally the implementation header (with the time complexity) underneath that? It would look something like this:

Unofficial Editorial (C++)
## Explanation
blah blah
## Implementation
**Time Complexity:** O(n+ m)
<Insert code here>

[Unofficial Editorial (C++)](https://codeforces.com/blog/entry/83295)

**Time Complexity:** $\mathcal{O}(n+ m)$

For each customer, we want to find the maximum possible ticket price they will
accept from the available tickets. If the customer's maximum price is too low,
so that no ticket price is below it, we can return -1. If not, we find the
greatest ticket price less than or equal to the maximum price, and then remove
that price as specified by the problem.

> We use a multiset for this. A

Reviewer 2: You don't need an explanation for a multiset since it's already in the module it's from.

		Map.Entry<Integer, Integer> val;

		for (int i = 0; i < ticketNum; i++) {
			int priceOfTicket = io.nextInt();
			/*
			 * If the set already contains the same key value, create another pair 
			 * next to it
			 */
			if (ticketMultiset.containsKey(priceOfTicket)) {
				ticketMultiset.put(priceOfTicket, ticketMultiset.get(priceOfTicket) + 1);
			} else {
				ticketMultiset.put(priceOfTicket, 1);
			}
		}

		for (int i = 0; i < peopleNum; i++) {
			int customerMaxPrice = io.nextInt();
			/*
			 * Get the optimal ticket for this customer 
			 * We add 1 because lowerEntry returns the highest *strictly* lower entry
			 */
			val = ticketMultiset.lowerEntry(customerMaxPrice + 1); 
			// If there are no possible prices, we can exit and return -1
			if (val != null) {
				pw.println(val.getKey());
				/*
				 * If there's more than one set with the key value, then replace
				 * the current set with the next-lowest set with the same key 
				 */
				if (val.getValue() == 1) {
					ticketMultiset.remove(val.getKey());

				} else {
					ticketMultiset.put(val.getKey(), val.getValue() - 1);
				}
			} else {
				pw.println(-1);
			}
		}
		io.close();
		pw.close();
	}

> 	//BeginCodeSnip{Fast Reader}

Reviewer 3: kattio? did you try that first?

Author: Yep, didn't work even in its most slimmed-down version.

Reviewer 3: wow that's an f

	return 0;
}
```

</CPPSection>

<JavaSection>
```java
import java.io.*;
import java.util.*;

public class ConcertTickets {

> 	public static void main(String[] args) throws IOException {

Reviewer 4: is `throws IOException` needed?

Reviewer 2: yeah I think so, `nextInt()` throws IOException

		Reader io = new Reader();
		PrintWriter pw = new PrintWriter(System.out);

		int ticketNum = io.nextInt();
		int peopleNum = io.nextInt();
		// No multiset in java so we'll have to use a TreeMap
		NavigableMap<Integer, Integer> ticketMultiset = new TreeMap<>();
		Map.Entry<Integer, Integer> val;

		for (int i = 0; i < ticketNum; i++) {
			int priceOfTicket = io.nextInt();
			/*
			 * If the set already contains the same key value, 
			 * create another pair next to it
			 */
			if (ticketMultiset.containsKey(priceOfTicket)) {

> 				ticketMultiset.put(priceOfTicket, 
> 					      ticketMultiset.get(priceOfTicket) + 1);

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
				ticketMultiset.put(priceOfTicket, 
									ticketMultiset.get(priceOfTicket) + 1);
```
does this look better?
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/63619830/129510461-f8d9fe61-cd43-420d-9014-25caf276d4b3.png)

**Time Complexity:** $\mathcal{O}(n+ m)$

For each customer, we want to find the maximum possible ticket price they will
accept from the available tickets. If the customer's maximum price is too low,
so that no ticket price is below it, we can return -1. If not, we find the
greatest ticket price less than or equal to the maximum price, and then remove
that price as specified by the problem.

We use, at least in theory, a multiset for this. A
[multiset](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Multiset) is basically an ordered set
that allows multiple pairs of the same key. But Java doesn't have a defined
multiset method, so we have to use a regular ordered set with some special
modifications, using values as a counter of the number of identical sets. This
allows us to distinguish between sets, and remove each set once.

<Warning>
Due to the way CSES's grader works (allowing 1 second for all problems + being slow), test cases 5 and 8 TLE (time limit exceeded). USACO gives Java test cases 4 seconds, so this isn't representative of what competing with Java will be like. 
</Warning>
```java
import java.io.*;
import java.util.*;

public class ConcertTickets {

>     public static void main(String[] args) throws IOException {

Reviewer 5: indent using tabs

        Kattio io = new Kattio();

        int numberOfTickets = io.nextInt();
        int numberOfPeople = io.nextInt();
        /*
         * Since Java doesn't have its own multiset method like C++, we'll have
         * to use a regular ordered set
         */
        TreeMap<Integer, Integer> ticketMultiset = new TreeMap<Integer, Integer>();
        Map.Entry<Integer, Integer> val;

        // Read the ticket prices into the multiset
        for (int i = 0; i < numberOfTickets; i++) {
            int priceOfTicket = io.nextInt();
            /*
             * If the set already contains the same key value, just create another pair
             * right next to it
             */
            if (ticketMultiset.containsKey(priceOfTicket))
                ticketMultiset.put(priceOfTicket, ticketMultiset.get(priceOfTicket) + 1);
            else
                ticketMultiset.put(priceOfTicket, 1);
        }

        for (int i = 0; i < numberOfPeople; i++) {
            int customerMaxPrice = io.nextInt();

>             /*

Reviewer 5: you might want to get @SansPapyrus683 opinion on some of these comments

Author: Pretty sure he approves of them since he approved the pr

             * the price of a ticket, as lowerEntry only returns sets with
             * strictly lower entries.
             * We're using an ordered map here since we're using a multiset,
             * which means we have to manually remove each set with identical
             * keys. We'll need the entire set to do that, though, so we get it here.
             */
            val = ticketMultiset.lowerEntry(customerMaxPrice + 1);
            /*
             * If there is no lower price, the answer will be null,
             * so there's no possible prices, so we can exit and return -1
             */
            if (val != null) {
                io.println(val.getKey());
                /**
                 * If there's more than one set with the key value, then replace
                 * the current set with the next-lowest set with the same key
                 */
                if (val.getValue() == 1)
                    ticketMultiset.remove(val.getKey());
                else
                    ticketMultiset.put(val.getKey(), val.getValue() - 1);
            } else
                io.println(-1);
        }
        io.close();
    }
    //CodeSnip{Kattio}

```

> 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```

that price as specified by the problem.

We use, at least in theory, a multiset for this. A
[multiset](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Multiset) is basically an ordered set
that allows multiple pairs of the same key. But Java doesn't have a defined
multiset method, so we have to use a regular ordered set with some special
modifications, using values as a counter of the number of identical sets. This
allows us to distinguish between sets, and remove each set once.

<Warning>
Due to the way CSES's grader works (allowing 1 second for all problems + being slow), test cases 5 and 8 TLE (time limit exceeded). USACO gives Java test cases 4 seconds, so this isn't representative of what competing with Java will be like. 
</Warning>
```java
import java.io.*;
import java.util.*;

public class ConcertTickets {
	public static void main(String[] args) throws IOException {
		Kattio io = new Kattio();

		int ticketNum = io.nextInt();
		int peopleNum = io.nextInt();
		// No multiset in java so we'll have to use a TreeMap
		TreeMap<Integer, Integer> ticketMultiset = new TreeMap<>();
		Map.Entry<Integer, Integer> val;

		for (int i = 0; i < ticketNum; i++) {
			int priceOfTicket = io.nextInt();
			/*

> 			 * If the set already contains the same key value, just create another pair 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
			 * If the set already contains the same key value, create another pair 
```

> 			 * right next to it

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
			 * next to it
```

			 */
			if (ticketMultiset.containsKey(priceOfTicket)) {
				ticketMultiset.put(priceOfTicket, ticketMultiset.get(priceOfTicket) + 1);
			} else {
				ticketMultiset.put(priceOfTicket, 1);
			}
		}

		for (int i = 0; i < peopleNum; i++) {
			int customerMaxPrice = io.nextInt();
			/*
			 * Get the optimal ticket for this customer 
			 * We add 1 because lowerEntry returns the highest *strictly* lower entry
			 */
			val = ticketMultiset.lowerEntry(customerMaxPrice + 1); 
			/*

> 			 * If there is no lower price, the answer will be null, 
> 			 * so there's no possible prices, so we can exit and return -1

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
			 * If there's no possible prices, we can exit and return -1
```

Reviewer 3: if this makes the comment one line, just use an inline comment i mean

**Time Complexity:** $\mathcal{O}(n+ m)$

For each customer, we want to find the maximum possible ticket price they will
accept from the available tickets. If the customer's maximum price is too low,
so that no ticket price is below it, we can return -1. If not, we find the
greatest ticket price less than or equal to the maximum price, and then remove
that price as specified by the problem.

We use, at least in theory, a multiset for this. A
[multiset](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Multiset) is basically an ordered set
that allows multiple pairs of the same key. But Java doesn't have a defined
multiset method, so we have to use a regular ordered set with some special
modifications, using values as a counter of the number of identical sets. This
allows us to distinguish between sets, and remove each set once.

<Warning>
Due to the way CSES's grader works (allowing 1 second for all problems + being slow), test cases 5 and 8 TLE (time limit exceeded). USACO gives Java test cases 4 seconds, so this isn't representative of what competing with Java will be like. 
</Warning>
```java
import java.io.*;
import java.util.*;

> 
> import java.io.*;
> import java.util.*;

Reviewer 3: wait why did you import this twice
```suggestion
```

             * right next to it
             */
            if (ticketMultiset.containsKey(priceOfTicket)) {
                ticketMultiset.put(priceOfTicket, ticketMultiset.get(priceOfTicket) + 1);
            } else {
                ticketMultiset.put(priceOfTicket, 1);
            }
        }

        for (int i = 0; i < peopleNum; i++) {
            int customerMaxPrice = io.nextInt();
            /*
             * Get the optimal ticket for this customer 
             * We add 1 because lowerEntry returns the highest *strictly* lower entry
             */
            val = ticketMultiset.lowerEntry(customerMaxPrice + 1); 
            /*
             * If there is no lower price, the answer will be null, 
             * so there's no possible prices, so we can exit and return -1
             */
            if (val != null) {
                io.println(val.getKey());
                /*
                 * If there's more than one set with the key value, then replace
                 * the current set with the next-lowest set with the same key 
                 */
                if (val.getValue() == 1) {
                    ticketMultiset.remove(val.getKey());

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

**Time Complexity:** $\mathcal{O}(n+ m)$

For each customer, we want to find the maximum possible ticket price they will
accept from the available tickets. If the customer's maximum price is too low,
so that no ticket price is below it, we can return -1. If not, we find the
greatest ticket price less than or equal to the maximum price, and then remove
that price as specified by the problem.

We use, at least in theory, a multiset for this. A
[multiset](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Multiset) is basically an ordered set
that allows multiple pairs of the same key. But Java doesn't have a defined
multiset method, so we have to use a regular ordered set with some special
modifications, using values as a counter of the number of identical sets. This
allows us to distinguish between sets, and remove each set once.

<Warning>
Due to the way CSES's grader works (allowing 1 second for all problems + being slow), test cases 5 and 8 TLE (time limit exceeded). USACO gives Java test cases 4 seconds, so this isn't representative of what competing with Java will be like. 
</Warning>
```java
import java.io.*;
import java.util.*;

public class ConcertTickets {

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

>     public static void main(String[] args) throws IOException {

Reviewer 3: indent w/ tabs instead of spaces

Author: I think I did it

Reviewer 3: don't think you did? what ide are you using

Author: Vscode

Reviewer 4: try <kbd>cmd + shift + p</kbd> (or <kbd>ctrl + shift + p</kbd> for windows i think) > Convert indentation to tabs

Author: I think I changed the spacing to tabs, though everything's pretty shifted over now

        Kattio io = new Kattio();

        int numberOfTickets = io.nextInt();

>         int numberOfPeople = io.nextInt();

Reviewer 3: maybe just `ticketNum` and `peopleNum`

Author: Done.

>         /*
>          * Since Java doesn't have its own multiset method like C++, we'll have
>          * to use a regular ordered set
>          */

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        // No multiset in java so we'll have to use a TreeMap
```

Author: Done.

>         TreeMap<Integer, Integer> ticketMultiset = new TreeMap<Integer, Integer>();

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        TreeMap<Integer, Integer> ticketMultiset = new TreeMap<>();
```

Author: Done(do I need to comment done on every one?).

Reviewer 3: no just resolve them or something like that

        Map.Entry<Integer, Integer> val;

>         // Read the ticket prices into the multiset

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

Author: Done

        for (int i = 0; i < numberOfTickets; i++) {
            int priceOfTicket = io.nextInt();
            /*
             * If the set already contains the same key value, just create another pair
             * right next to it
             */
            if (ticketMultiset.containsKey(priceOfTicket))
                ticketMultiset.put(priceOfTicket, ticketMultiset.get(priceOfTicket) + 1);
            else
                ticketMultiset.put(priceOfTicket, 1);
        }

        for (int i = 0; i < numberOfPeople; i++) {
            int customerMaxPrice = io.nextInt();
            /*
             * Of all ticket prices, get the pair of the greatest possible
             * ticket price less than the maximum.
             * We add 1 to customerMaxPrice just in case the maximum price is

>              * the price of a ticket, as lowerEntry only returns sets with

Author: Done

             * strictly lower entries.
             * We're using an ordered map here since we're using a multiset,
             * which means we have to manually remove each set with identical
             * keys. We'll need the entire set to do that, though, so we get it here.
             */
            val = ticketMultiset.lowerEntry(customerMaxPrice + 1);
            /*
             * If there is no lower price, the answer will be null,
             * so there's no possible prices, so we can exit and return -1
             */
            if (val != null) {
                io.println(val.getKey());

>                 /**

Reviewer 3: i thought 2 *'s was only for doc comments

Author: Oops

Author: Done

                 * If there's more than one set with the key value, then replace
                 * the current set with the next-lowest set with the same key
                 */
                if (val.getValue() == 1)
                    ticketMultiset.remove(val.getKey());
                else
                    ticketMultiset.put(val.getKey(), val.getValue() - 1);

>             } else

Reviewer 3: maybe add brackets

Author: Done

	return 0;
}
```

</CPPSection>

<JavaSection>
<Warning>

> Due to the way CSES's grader works (allowing 1 second for all problems + being slow), test cases 5 and 8 TLE (time limit exceeded). USACO gives Java test cases 4 seconds, so this isn't representative of what competing with Java will be like. 

Reviewer 2: Try reading the tickets and max prices through io.nextLine(), and then splitting them into integer arrays. I've generally found this to be fast enough to pass CSES.

Author: From what I can see, there isn't a nextLine function in Kattio, there's only a next function that returns the next token.  I have made some improvements to reduce runtime, they haven't fixed the TLE issue.

Author: Never mind, I just used a faster reader (hidden through codesnip). Now all tests pass.

> Also, Java doesn't have a defined multiset function, so we have to use an ordered map with some special modifications, using values as a counter of the number of identical sets. This allows us to distinguish between sets, and remove each set once.

Reviewer 2: This is also explained in the multisets section of "More operations on ordered sets"

		Map.Entry<Integer, Integer> val;

		for (int i = 0; i < ticketNum; i++) {
			int priceOfTicket = io.nextInt();
			/*
			 * If the set already contains the same key value, create another pair 
			 * next to it
			 */
			if (ticketMultiset.containsKey(priceOfTicket)) {
				ticketMultiset.put(priceOfTicket, ticketMultiset.get(priceOfTicket) + 1);
			} else {
				ticketMultiset.put(priceOfTicket, 1);
			}
		}

		for (int i = 0; i < peopleNum; i++) {
			int customerMaxPrice = io.nextInt();
			/*
			 * Get the optimal ticket for this customer 
			 * We add 1 because lowerEntry returns the highest *strictly* lower entry
			 */
			val = ticketMultiset.lowerEntry(customerMaxPrice + 1); 
			// If there are no possible prices, we can exit and return -1
			if (val != null) {
				io.println(val.getKey());
				/*
				 * If there's more than one set with the key value, then replace
				 * the current set with the next-lowest set with the same key 
				 */
				if (val.getValue() == 1) {
					ticketMultiset.remove(val.getKey());

				} else {
					ticketMultiset.put(val.getKey(), val.getValue() - 1);
				}
			} else
				io.println(-1);

> 		}

Reviewer 2: either add brackets to this else statement or put the `io.println(-1)` on the same line as `else`
